---
created: 2022-08-21 11:21
---
tags:: #atlas/MOC🗺
Links: 
# Escritura

## Recursos
### Paginas
- [Emma Darwin's toolkit](https://emmadarwin.typepad.com/thisitchofwriting/resources.html) is a good resource for writing techniques, at least to make you familiar with what's out there.
- [K M Weiland's site](https://www.helpingwritersbecomeauthors.com/) is a good overview of storytelling and dramatic structure.

### Libros
- **Introduction**
		- Save the Cat by Blake Snyder
- **Storytelling:**
	- The Anatomy of a Story by John Truby
	- Stein on Writing by Sol Stein
	- The Fire in Fiction by Donald Maass
	- El Universo de la Creación Literaria por Isaías Peña Gutiérrez
	- La Cocina de la Escritura por Daniel Cassany
- **Worldbuilding**
	- The Planet Construction Kit by Mark Rosenfelder
	- Worldbuildingpasta
	- Worldbuilding StackExchange
	- Worldbuilding by Stephen Gillet
	- Science in scifi, fact in fantasy
- **Writing technique:**
	- Techniques of the selling writer, by Dwight Swain. Pretty much a step-by-step book on how to write action and adventure stories. It's an excellent foundation to build on.
	- Self-editing for fiction writers, by Renni Browne and Dave King. Pretty much what it says on the box. Techniques developmental editors use to help with dramatization.
- **Language:**
	- [The Elements of Style,](http://www.jlakes.org/ch/web/The-elements-of-style.pdf) by Strunk and White. Classic book on writing style. It doesn't cover everything, but as a starting point you can't go wrong.
	- Chicago Manual of Style
- **Style.**
	- **Extreme Plotting**
		- Story Genius by Lisa Cron	
		- The Story Grid by Shawn Coyne
		- Outlining your Novel w Workbook by K. M. Weiland
		- The Ten Day Outline by Lewis Jorstad
		- How to Write a Novel using the Snowflake Method by Randy Ingermanson
		- Save the Cat! Writes a Novel by Jessica Brody
	- **Relaxed Plotting**
		- Plot and Structure by James Scott Bell
		- Planning your Novel by Janice Hardy
		- The Plot Whisperer by Martha Alderson
	- **Plantsing**
		- Story Trumps Structure by Steven James
		- Write your Novel from the Middle by James Scott Bell
		- Story Genius by Lisa Cron
	- **Controlled Pantsing**
		- No Plot? No Problem! by Chris Baty
		- Beginnings, Middles and Ends by Nancy Kress
		- Zen in the Art of Writing by Ray Bradbury
	- **Extreme Pantsing**
		- Bird by Bird by Anne Lamott
		- The Writer's Idea Book by Jack Heffron
___
